As we approach the 21st century, a new means of communication is emerging.
This technology uses computer networks to link people on every continent.
If we are destined to live in a global village, one day we will all be connected to the internet.
This is Linux Unplugged episode 292.
Welcome into Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show that's in a hot box this week.
Getting ready for some podcasting.
My name is Chris.
My name is Wes.
Hello, Mr. Payne, and joining us in studio this weekend is Mr. Cheese Bacon.
Hello, Cheese.
Hey, how's it going?
Nice to finally be here.
It is.
Nice to have you here, I mean.
Well, and it's always been unplugged, which has always been not central time, which has
always been when I've been at work.
Hey, that's true.
That's true.
So that's a thing.
Now you can actually be here live, finally.
Coming up on this week's episode of the Unplugged program, we're going to look back at a couple
of big milestones, including one from Mozilla, one for the web, and NGINX being sold for
$670 million, plus Sway hits 1.0, and then we look at some leadership challenges facing
the Debian project.
And then later on in the show, myself, Wes, and El will join and get in here, talk about
scale.
We're going to get into scale.
We're going to tell you how 17X went, what we took away from it, and a few stories.
And then after all of that, we get to some of those emails.
Finally, after what has been ages on the show, we'll answer a few emails that came in.
We'll see how many we get to.
Yeah, right.
I should say that.
It's not that we're not looking.
There's just so much to talk about that we have to make time for feedback segments.
No, we read it.
We totally read it.
But this week, we're going to try to include some of it, depending on how long the scale
stories go, because then we have a hard out by the network.
No, I'm kidding.
It's just we try to keep it like an hour and change.
But before we go any further, let's bring in that mumble room.
Time appropriate.
Greetings, mumble room.
Hello.
All right.
Hi, there.
Hello.
And I hear Elle in there, too.
Hello, Elle.
Hello, hello.
So we're starting today.
And there's one thing that always plagues this episode.
This is always the episode where the time zone math messes with everybody's head.
So like a good chunk of our virtual lug can't make it because it's like a totally different
time for them.
Oh, yeah.
I didn't even think time change.
It's easier to just join and be here all day.
And that way, you know, you won't miss it.
It's easier if we just don't have time change savings.
I know.
Right.
Wouldn't that be like way easier?
Yeah.
You would think.
I don't understand why they don't do that.
Well, anyways, as you probably heard there in the intro, we have a bit of a milestone.
It is at least if you're to believe the hype, the Web's birthday today, the Web turns 30
years old today.
It's also Linux Academy's birthday.
So that's kind of cool.
Two things.
Two great things happening today.
Those were planned.
Maybe.
You know, I think that's something worth maybe asking Anthony for sure.
There's a bunch of different a bunch of different things going online, though, to celebrate
the anniversary of Tim Berners-Lee proposal back in 1989 of March to put together.
What did he call it?
He didn't call it the World Wide Web back then, did he, Wes?
He called it like an information proposal or something.
Yeah, basically.
And vague but interesting, I think, is what his boss described it as, which I mean, like
all good ideas.
Yeah.
OK.
Amazon, Google and others have been submitting like old versions of their Web sites to Twitter
to celebrate the day.
We have a link in the show notes that is actually really cool to see, like the old Amazon dot
com.
Welcome to the Amazon bookstore.
We still shipping books from this garage, right?
That's pretty great, though.
It makes me feel a little old and nostalgic at the same time.
It seems about as usable as some of their current pages.
Wow.
Savage, Wes.
Savage.
So savage.
And actually kind of in a way would I wouldn't mind it.
They sell too many things to organize it in that old way.
But if they could have individual pages like that for for different categories, it might
actually work.
So I don't know.
This is kind of this is a rough anniversary estimate because it's it's today technically
because Tim Berners-Lee is going back to CERN to celebrate today, even though it was really
in the month of March.
And do we call that a birthday?
I guess we can call that a birthday.
I mean, as long as we can all just be grateful that we wouldn't be here talking without any
of these inventions and the hard work over the years and the fact that so many of us
have jobs that wouldn't have exist without it.
It's deep, Wes.
It's so deep.
Mozilla is celebrating and giving the Web a birthday present today.
They're moving their send service out of testing to an actual full fledged service.
If you're not familiar, send is a free encrypted file transfer service that allows users to
safely and simply share files from any browser.
It doesn't have to be just Firefox.
And now it's a keeper.
And so they're upping the upload limit and giving some more controls.
Looks like it's a full fledged service now.
I was a little confused because I saw like announcing I was like, this this already existed.
But yeah, everyone kind of forgot about it.
It's always been useful this entire time, especially since it's end to end encrypted.
And honestly, they've thought a lot about some of the UX here.
There's some command line tools that interface with their system, reasonable limits.
You get a gig free 2.5 gigs if you have a free Firefox account.
And you know, you can set it to either expire on the number of downloads or time based or
both.
Yeah, that's pretty awesome.
And an Android app is apparently in beta.
Oh, yeah.
It's gonna be coming down the pipeline to which I think, obviously, mobile first everything
these days.
Right?
Sure.
Yeah.
Send is a really simple way for the recipient to get the file to because they don't have
to set up an account.
They just can use any web browser and just download the file.
And the end to end encryption means that even if it's stored on Mozilla servers, they're
not reading it.
So that's nice to see them take this out.
Sometimes these test pilot programs don't get taken out and at a test pilot, they just
sort of fade away.
Well, I think what's really cool about it, too, is that in encryption, I mean, this is
something my mother could use and her files would be encrypted when she sends them to
my aunt or whatever.
And she doesn't even need to know anything about encryption or you know, it's just it's
built in.
Here it is.
Go with it.
You know, I think it's cool for Mozilla to to spin up that sort of technology and just
forever.
Right?
It's PGP.
What?
Yeah.
Oh, for sure.
Right.
And so you can think about tax time.
Yeah.
Tax season.
Absolutely.
I can tell you right now it's like either it all gets sent in my email or I get sent
off to links to like DocuSign or other services.
And it's kind of a mess.
It's a hodgepodge.
Always, always seems to be for sure.
Well, Mr. Cheese Bacon, that's who you're hearing right there.
He's here in studio with me.
This is the Texas studio.
What do you think of the old Texas studio, man?
It's nice.
I mean, I can't compare it.
You sound a little skeptical here.
Or is it just because your new boss is right next to you in his studio?
Well, I mean, that's that's a thing, too.
But right.
I haven't seen the other studios.
Right.
So I can only.
I'm just going for like, you know, this is just like, you know, a podcast studio.
I like it.
I mean, I like this.
This the swanky lounge chairs.
Yeah.
I want people to be comfortable.
I want people to be comfortable with all the things.
And I think the only thing that doesn't have an acoustic foam light switches.
Yep.
Which there is a recording light.
Right.
So light switches don't have acoustic foam.
Mm hmm.
That's about it.
Receptacles.
Yeah.
I've got like five or six Wi-Fi bulbs in here doing different colors and stuff.
It's pretty great.
It is.
It is nice.
It gives a nice ambiance.
It gets warm, though.
Yeah.
So Cheese Bacon has officially joined our team.
Yeah, I'm super excited about it, man.
This is a dream come true for me.
I think a lot of people in the community, you know, I'm sure they've seen me on IRC.
Oh yeah, you've been around for ages.
Through all of the...
How many years have you been in the community?
At least a decade.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Back and forth.
And I've always been drawn to, I think for me really what it was is Linux and where my
heart is with it.
And I understand your frustrations, especially when you're trying to depend on it for a production
level.
Yeah.
For those that didn't know, I was just griping on the livestream about audio issues we were
going to get.
Critical livestream issues, right?
And sometimes, and that's why I say, you know, use the right tool for the job.
But I'm a graphic artist.
That's my day job.
I've worked in television, I've worked in screen printing, I've worked in news, blah,
blah, blah, on and on.
But one of the things that I've always loved about Linux is that you can create Linux and
you can make Linux what you want.
And that's evident by all the slew of distros we have.
That's evident by MioLinux that just came out recently, right?
Even anyone that's in the Mumble Room, that's in the IRC, that's a student at Linux Academy,
anyone can make their own distro.
And I think for me, that's what really drew me into it.
And then naturally, you know, I guess to date myself a little bit, we didn't have necessarily
YouTubes in those days of learning the Linux.
So I had to buy my first copy from a comp USA bargain bin at that, you know.
Actually, but I enjoyed getting the box copy back then.
I did too, man.
I liked that.
I did have to go out of my way to get a four megabyte Trident video card to support my
first install of, I think it was Slack that I was having a problem with.
Soos worked fine, you know, but it was Slackware at the time that my roommate had got me into
that I couldn't run without having another video card.
That's about right.
And so I think like, I think back to some of the problems that I had like way back then,
you know, it was like, it was broken.
There was nothing there.
There were no communication channels or YouTube videos or Linux academies to teach you, right?
It was, you just slog through it, oh, you found IRC, right?
And so then that's organically what brought me to Jupyter Broadcasting is the IRC channel
and the support there and lack thereof sometimes.
But you know, all around is a great community and I'm glad to finally be not only part of
the Linux community and working professionally in the Linux community, but part of the JB
family and of course, the Linux Academy family.
Everyone here has just been so welcoming.
Isn't that been great?
Dude, it's so good.
It's so good.
I mean, everybody, I'm not good with faces.
So I'll probably have to take a while go to the HR page and look at pictures and kind
of associate names that way.
But overall, like everyone has just been hands down super nice.
I couldn't have asked for a better welcoming.
Congratulations, Mr. Cheese Bacon.
I have a question for you.
Thank you.
What's your actual role?
What are you going to be doing with Chris?
My title is a community creative engineer.
So any sort of the marketing stuff that's going to be coming up?
Yeah, job one is going to be swag from Linux Fest.
Linux Fest, Northwest swag is in the works.
If anyone just has some amazing piece of swag that they think we should look at, please,
you know, reach out to me.
I'd love to hear your opinions and your suggestions on that.
JB engraved laptops.
You heard it here first.
Yeah.
Branded ThinkPads for everyone.
Golden Yetis for everyone.
Yeah.
All right.
I'm sorry, guys.
Not only that, but we have new logos for all the shows in the works and updates to the
website to accommodate those new logos.
And so we've been working on upgrading our look because as an independent operation,
I never, ever, ever had the budget to spend on that stuff.
It was like a lot of times I'd come to cheese and I'd be like, hey, man, could you bang
me this thing out real quick?
Because I'm about to go live tomorrow morning and I need some art for the show that I just
launched.
Well, and tomorrow morning, maybe it may be I'm about to go live with this show in an
hour and 37 minutes.
Can you do something?
Yeah.
And of course, I mean, if wherever I can lend a hand back to the community, I was more than
happy to do that.
I just love it.
I mean, we find somebody from the community and we can bring them in.
You know, Wes too.
Wes was started.
You know, he came up for a community barbecue that we held at the at the studio and he smoked
those meats, man.
And now I'm hooked.
That's right.
He just took my smoked meat.
Now he's in.
So I just love it whenever we get an opportunity to do that.
So it's really cool to have you here.
Super glad.
It's nice to have you in studio for this episode, too.
Why don't we keep going?
Keep talking a little news.
We just have a few news items I'd like to go through and probably do some further digging
on some of these in Linux action news this week.
But let's start with this NGINX sale.
Oh, yeah, that's a biggie.
Yeah, man.
Six hundred and seventy million.
Six hundred and seventy million dollars for NGINX and they're being acquired by F5.
F5 networks, which in your neck of the woods right now, aren't they, Wes?
That's right.
They're a Seattle based company.
And if you're not familiar, I guess that's because you don't do anything with a lot of
network traffic.
They make load balancers, application gateways, all those things on your network that actually
connects the important bits with your customers.
Load balancing, eh, what would you say is a common use case for NGINX?
That same thing.
And you'll see a lot of stuff in this announcement about the, you know, the synergy opportunities,
how they can mesh this together.
But honestly, you go look at the NGINX blog from like two years ago and a lot of their
entries are how to replace your expensive F5 appliance with NGINX.
And now maybe that was them trying to sell their NGINX Pro, of course.
But I can definitely see F5 being like, well, NGINX is by far the most popular Ingress controller
on Kubernetes, especially compared to our own version of that.
So how do we get our foot in the door here?
I think this is a pretty smart move.
I think you're right.
I think this has a big part of an overall orchestration play.
So that way you can snap their technology in.
Now F5 is going to be able to have also a community offering that is going to remain
free and open source.
NGINX says that addition or their core product will remain free and open source, which is
great news for me since I've run it on my personal.
Yeah, I don't actually I don't get a big sense of dread and doom on this one.
No, and I think a lot of times, you know, it's a lot of these doom and glooms are kind
of built up by the persona anyway, right?
It's kind of announcing it.
Yeah, I think it's one of those things that we're just going to wait and see how it plays
out.
Exactly.
It is definitely.
Anybody in the Mumba room have a different take?
Anybody concerned or startled by this acquisition?
Maybe maybe I'm missing something here.
I'm straight down the middle on this one.
I've worked with F5 in the past as an actual vendor.
I sit on the other side of the fence now with Red Hat looking in at some of the F5 integrations
they have with OpenShift.
That's what I was thinking about.
Yeah, I think there's a lot of people use NGINX for a whole different slew of purposes.
I'm going to wait and see how this one plays out.
It's not like when GitHub got acquired, I was like, oh, no, what's happening here?
But yeah, it's we'll see, I guess.
We'll see.
I agree.
I don't have the GitHub sensation.
So that's a that's a good way to put it.
And I also I want to acknowledge you're right.
We've sort of we sort of pigeonholed NGINX as one particular type of functionality.
It does.
It's a web server.
It does a lot of things.
It's just a very common use case has been accelerating applications behind it or proxying
connections.
We use NGINX in production.
Yeah, of course we do.
It is kind of a nice moment to reflect.
I mean, I don't remember the last time I spun up an Apache server.
I just really don't because NGINX by some measures is like 67 percent of web connections.
It's just crazy how successful of a project it's been.
Probably a lot of reason because it's open source.
Have any of you seen whether there is any change in NGINX's commitment to being open
or not as a consequence of this?
Because that would change my opinion.
As they say, F5 is committed to continued innovation and increasing investment in the
NGINX open source project to empower NGINX's widespread user community.
They're also keeping the CEO and founders on board.
OK, until you all forget in three years anyway.
Right.
I mean, things got a vest and yeah.
But it is a good sign that they're staying on board for now.
I think, though, for me, the 670 million is I mean, that's a little low, right?
Yeah.
I mean, that's good money.
Don't get me wrong.
It is.
It is good money.
And it's, you know, or is this the first real software company valuation that we've seen
for a while?
Oh, there you go to us.
That's a great point.
Yeah.
This is a first non overinflated right evaluation.
Right.
Yeah, there is there is that sort of hype bubble that we have right now where things
are just going for, I mean, crazy prices.
Absolutely.
And then on the other end of the spectrum, you have projects like sway, which probably
will never sell for millions of dollars.
But heck, if they aren't just chugging away and getting more and more impressive all the
time and they have finally reached version one dot o, which is the first stable release
of sway.
Now, I guess we should probably back up a little bit.
Sway is how what is a what is a concise way to explain what sway is.
So in the world of Wayland, you need certain new components that the in the past were provided
by the display server.
And now with Wayland being a protocol, you need to write your own display server and
you need to be able to provide certain sets of functionality.
And we spent a while kind of worrying about that.
Right.
We're like, well, OK, the big projects, they're going to make that happen.
Sure.
No KD.
But what about all the other wonderful bespoke environments that we all love?
Yeah.
So sway is really turned into an umbrella project of a bunch of other things.
You have a tiling window manager that runs on top of Wayland, but you also have sway
idle, sway lock, grim slurp, WF recorder, a bunch of sub utilities that manage and take
care of stuff in a Wayland setup that in the past you didn't have to worry about as much.
And think I three as well.
I mean, if you're if you're going to talk about the desktop, it's very much an I three
compatibility.
And you noticed in there that they have a particular tool and keeping in mind that this
is a tiling window manager, which is usually going to be covered by windows.
Why don't you tell us about that?
All right.
So so the last tool that they list here on their post is is a wall utils, which is a
beautiful wallpaper utility that you can set time.
So say if you wanted to crossfade two images between 10 a.m. and noon, you know, to basically
transform your desktop throughout the day.
You can do that.
And I mean, there's just some really amazing other features there set set up.
You can get your DPI really for all your monitors.
You just put like for the for the background one, you just put the time of day range in
the file name.
Essentially.
Yes.
Right.
Essentially.
Basically.
And then it from that interprets the range that you wanted to calculate.
Absolutely.
How does that work?
So on a tiling window manager when you've got tiles?
Yeah.
Tiles of windows.
You know, they in the demo for it, they do show that you can you can gap the windows,
right?
So you can have 20, 40, 80, however many pixels, however far you want to reduce your window.
But then you're still going to get the gap view of the desktop.
I mean, I think that this is still a great utility that that's going to be used.
I think we're going to see this widely adopted in other places as well.
Yeah, that's the great thing is other projects can take advantage of this code.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, way bar is also really clean, really nice.
That's an alternative panel.
They've developed.
Yeah, that's their alternative panel.
They get their own video capture slurp, I thought was kind of a weird name for interactive
region.
Yeah.
So like hovering your mouse to the corner and viewing your windows and stuff.
That's another one with a tiling window manager.
Oh, yeah.
Good point.
Most of those going to be present and visible.
That's kind of a neat thing here, right?
Is there are so many that just been this community that sprung up solving all kinds of little
problems in the Wayland ecosystem, regardless of how directly useful they might be on sway.
Exactly.
I think that's what's really cool about it, because they say here in their release, nearly
300 people work together for doing this over 9000 commits and almost 100,000 lines of code
from version point one five to the one point I release, you know, I'm actually tempted
to try myself, man.
I was going to ask the community out there if anybody knows of like a distro that just
sort of set up with this ready to go.
So I could get like, I'd love to see it like in the floating window mode and all that kind
of stuff.
Absolutely.
Just so I could like pop it on a live like USB thumb drive and try it out for an afternoon.
So if you know of one, let me know.
And supposedly there's improved touch screen support as well.
So devices, mobile devices in the future can also utilize this, which, you know, tiling
window manager in a mobile devices might be actually kind of a good use of mobile space
screen.
Especially like on a tablet.
Absolutely.
See that.
Kind of want to give it a go.
Be like a sway challenge.
Sway challenge.
Any distro you want.
But try it out.
Yeah.
I can see that.
All right.
Why don't we this is the next one's kind of uncomfortable.
It's negative in the freedom dimension.
It's at least negative.
I don't know if it's in the freedom dimension or not, but it's negative.
I don't know how to really tackle this one because we don't have direct involvement.
But I think it's important because Debian is important.
And so we're going to we're going to have to talk about this.
This is a post by Michael Stapleberg, I think is how you say his name.
But I've actually never had to say it out loud.
So I apologize, Michael, if I got that wrong.
He's worked with Debian for 10 years and he wrote a blog post a little while ago about
issues debugging software on Debian and some of the workflow frustrations he had.
And this week he's written a blog post about leaving Debian after 10 years.
It's a long time, says a few weeks ago, I visited some old friends at a Debian meetup
after a multi year period of absence on my bike ride home.
It occurred to me that the topics of our discussion had remarkable overlap with my last visit.
Have you ever done this like you go talk to some old buddies and just have like the same
little conversation you had like five years ago and it doesn't quite click like it used
to?
Yeah.
So he's he's like a man, you know, I went to this meetup and we had a discussion about
the merits of system D, which took a detour to the respect in the open source communities.
Happens all the time.
Especially when you bring up system D. Yep.
And then he says it returned to processes in Debian and eventually culminated in a discussion
around democracies and their theoretical and practical failings.
Why do we always seem to dig ourselves into this hole?
We like we always somehow the community manages to hate on itself.
I know.
We do.
And he says, I walked away from this thinking to myself, I think I'm done having this conversation.
I think I'm done discussing the same things over and over again and nothing ever changes.
And it wore him out.
And he went on to point out some other issues that it sound are just brutal.
Reviews are horribly slow.
Publishing packages can take up to seven hours.
Anonymous FTPs.
Yeah, anonymous FTP uploads, filing bugs that with a bug system that doesn't even have a
proper web interface where you communicate over email with it.
And it's it's weird and ancient.
It sounds like to that there's an issue where a lot of people can just sort of slow down
the whole thing and make change very hard.
Even if it's not something like system B, even if it's something simple, like we should
change this package so that it meets our requirements.
It makes a good point, right?
Like our culture needs to shift from this package is my domain, how dare you touch it
to a shared sense of ownership, which is as a community member.
That's how I kind of thought things would already be thought of.
Mm hmm.
I don't see how it's possible to create a unified desktop without that.
Yeah, he says my canonical example is our sink, whose maintainer refused my patches
to make the package use Deb Helper purely out of personal preference.
Personal preference to not match the way we do things for our sink.
Right?
We're not even talking like system D or controversial things here.
We're talking our tiny little command line utility.
Right?
Yeah, he says granting so much personal freedom to individual maintainers prevents as a as
a project from raising the abstraction level for building Debian packages, which in turn
makes tooling harder.
Then you have wildly divergent workflows.
And he goes on a little bit about that.
He talks about the time it takes to build packages.
All of this really kind of comes into like a Yeah, I can understand that be really frustrating
that would burn a lot of people out and is probably going to prevent a lot of new blood
coming into the project.
That's the part that I think is important is because we're hearing from someone who's
been experienced and a member of the project.
And there are some debates like newer is not always better.
And there are sometimes reasons why, yes, it's good to get contributions.
But if you get too many contributions that are, you know, aren't well formed enough that
they take so much time, that can sometimes be worse rather than better.
But it just seems like when you're hearing this stuff from someone who's trying really
hard putting in a ton of time to make this work, a little modernization that could that
could grease some wheels here.
Yeah.
So John had a follow up.
He so another gentleman, John Grosman, I think is how you are probably getting that wrong
too.
That's what I do.
Did a follow up defensive Debian blog post.
I know you had a chance to read it, Wes.
I'm curious what your takeaway from his defensive Debian was he like, for example, he spins
like the bug tracker not having a Web interface as a good thing because it means less people
submit bugs.
So as a maintainer, you have less work.
I don't know if that's quite how I would compare it.
I think I think it's really low bugs that don't have any reproducibility information
bugs that like are more work than they're worth fixing.
If you can give me a really good bug case, I want to investigate it.
But if it's just like, hey, this didn't work, I don't really know why.
So really, the case was made for tools that help that.
And when you're reporting something online, you don't have scripts that could go gather
all that information on the command line.
And really, I read this as not Debian is doing everything right.
But sometimes workflows are different from either the person on the on the side accepting
contributions than on the side making contributions.
And that GitHub might, you know, we shouldn't think of GitHub as like the ultimate workflow
for everyone, because it's just not it's a new thing.
It's a proprietary service.
Totally.
It does make sense to try to optimize and make things smooth, but not at the expense
of ruining all other workflows.
I think the bug tracker one, though, is an interesting one.
So it's software that was designed in 94.
It had its one of its more major updates in 99.
And the Gnome project and the KDE project abandoned it in 2002.
And they were one of the last holdouts.
Debian is the only project using this software that I know of besides I believe there is
a GNU version that's that's used to build a viewer for it.
So there is like a there is a second project, but again, no one widely uses it at all.
And this whole barrier to entry is, I think, maybe maybe I'm wrong, Wes.
But to me, it seems like it's going to turn off new adoption.
Yeah, new adoption.
And again, like you don't want to make it.
It's not always only about making contributions easy, but you want the whole process to be
easy so that it's easy to make a reasonable contribution and that you have the people
on the back end trying to play in between all these systems can actually make it work
without pulling their hair out.
OK, so here's my here's my other take on this, too.
Is you have this whole people in the project are slow to change.
They have their they have their domains that they own and they don't want to do it their
way because of their personal preference.
And as a project, there's really nothing they can do about this.
Is that actually a good thing?
Is it a good thing?
Because it's not the only Linux in town.
We've got Fedora.
We've got Ubuntu.
We've got Gentoo.
We've got Arch.
We've got all these other distributions that are going at wildly different paces that have
totally different organizational structures.
And we're kind of field testing everything at once in this way.
And so in in a like a high level version of looking at the Linux ecosystem, if you will,
and the crazy experiment that is distributions of that Linux ecosystem, isn't it good to
have one of them in the market be extremely conscientious about change and be really intentional
about what changes make it in and make it harder even to make change because the end
result is a distribution that has a type of stability that goes beyond software stability
but is also a type of change stability, which makes it better for deployments and enterprise.
It makes it easier to build your applications or services off of it.
I mean, that can be seen as a positive thing.
And because it's not the only Linux in town, it's not the end of the world.
Yeah.
And that has historically been one of Debian's strengths, right?
You can trust that if you've got an LTS released, you're running on your server, you can you
can probably apply all those unintended upgrades, and it's it's not gonna break.
The question I think is not to avoid all modernization, but to find the best points to put in the
effort so that you keep your old guard while making it easier for new people.
And I think that's, that's the message we should take away here is Debian deserves more
involvement and and everyone should be concerned about its future, not because it's the only
game in town, but because it has a lot to offer everyone.
I think it's it's Debian, man.
I mean, that was one of my first distros, right?
Slackware, Seuss, Debian, right?
Look at the impact Ubuntu has, which is based on Debian.
Absolutely, right?
I think and I think you know, you really touched on something when you talk about should should
a distro be slow to adopt new technology?
And I think so, to some degree is, you know, they should, but I also see where Michael's
coming from in that, guys, like, at this point, now we need to, you know, everybody buys their
groceries online, right?
We can still go to the store and get groceries and fill up baskets and do it that way and
bag our stuff and bring it home.
Or we can, you know, we don't have to jump the whole distro on board and change everything
overnight.
But I think small improvements that will help the workflow and that will inevitably help
the distribution grow and help the distribution get patches.
You know, I know that whenever just recently whenever Debian had its issue with apt, right,
they were on top of it, and they got it patched quick, like the same day, practically.
So I mean, they are there and they are willing, I think, to tackle tackle those problems.
But I think that, you know, when you see all the evolution of technologies and how other
distros handle things in today's day, that to bring some of that in isn't necessarily
bad.
But also, you should, you know, have that distro that's a little more staid.
You made me think of our recent discussion about Fedora's internal discussion about,
you know, maybe delaying the release to work on their developer Tungain.
So clearly they are an example of people that are trying to actively tackle this problem.
Okay, I've got a few more thoughts on this, but I want to give the virtual log a chance
to chime in.
Mr. Badger, what are your thoughts on this?
So I use Debian as my primary home server, and I have done for maybe seven or eight years,
at least.
And over that time, I found that the actual distro itself, in my server context at least,
has become less and less relevant as containers have taken over and other technologies that
cheese bacon alluded to just now.
And I think, for me, it boils down to how you structure the governance of an open source
project.
And this is something that we're trying to go through at Linux Server IO right now is
trying to figure out how to structure decision-making processes and not just have it be beholden
to one or two people's kind of beck and call, which it's a natural process growing out of
a personal project into a community project.
I think Debian's possibly too far the other way for my personal taste.
I think it's a fantastic project and a great asset to the Linux community.
Don't get me wrong.
I do think that there are definitely opportunities for improvement in the way in which the governance
model works.
I don't know if the pace of packages and stuff like that could be potentially changed, but
then does it need to when you have things like Ubuntu upstream that are a lot more quote
unquote modern and fresh, and you have so many other distros filling that niche?
I would argue that no, you don't need Debian to be completely up to date.
But I do have another point around the relationship between Debian and its children like Ubuntu.
I know I work for Red Hat, so that's full disclosure, but you look at the relationship
between Fedora and Red Hat and CentOS, and I think there's definitely some room for improvement
in just the velocity of the project and trying to make decisions and trying to keep people
engaged with that workflow.
I don't know quite what my point is, but I look at the ways in which Red Hat give back
to the community via all the open source contributions to the kernel and to desktop environments and
yada yada yada.
I think that there's definitely room for improvement with Debian in that space.
It's clear that there has been internal conflict that has torn the project up.
It's not just one developer who's rage quitting, which he's not, he's actually very gracious
in his goodbye letter.
It's a bigger problem, and his leaving is symptomatic of that bigger problem.
The System D debate tore them up.
But now in almost an embarrassing statement of the state of the project, they literally
could be entering a situation where they are leaderless.
Yeah, normally this time in the year, well, it's election season for Debian.
Over a six-week period, traditionally, interested candidates would put their names forward,
describe their vision for the project as a whole, answer questions from interested developers
trying to vet them, and then wait.
Watch they'd have a voting period, wait for the votes to come in, and huzzah, a new leader
would be elected.
Unfortunately, this time around, no one has stepped forward.
Yikes.
They've missed the first one, right?
So they're on the second round.
Yeah, they just go again.
They just keep going.
Yeah, to their credit, the Constitution does have rules.
It's just an infinite loop.
Yeah, and there's no rule that says the current leader, Chris Lamb, must remain.
Absolutely.
Once his time is over, he's free to walk.
And he said he doesn't intend to run for reelection for various personal and project-related
reasons that he's asked people not to speculate about, so we'll respect that.
And that leaves them in sort of an awkward position.
The Debian project, though, scatters authority throughout the project, so it's not like they're
going to be unfunctional, like they're going to continue on.
A lot of it is in the hands of the individual maintainers or positions in the Debian project.
I'll give you a couple examples.
Individual developers have nearly absolute control over the packages they maintain.
Difficult technical disagreements will get sorted out between developers and the technical
committee.
The release managers and the FTP masters make the final decision on when things actually
ship, and the project secretary ensures the necessary procedures are followed in general.
And then there's a policy team that handles much of the overall design for the distribution.
So in a sense, there's not a lot left for the leader to do other than to fully represent
the project and go out there.
Just show up to the conference and be the face, right?
Play the politics role, I suppose.
Yeah.
I think it also goes back to the last story, right?
I mean, it kind of falls back on what Alex was saying about governance and how these
things all play in together.
Yeah.
And are we just seeing a really outdated governance that needs to basically go back and kind of
rewrite to freshen itself up?
Or just even take a look at how they do things and see where they can improve or where they
can modernize.
We should compare it though, right, to other projects that have gotten this wrong, Solus
comes to mind.
Not that they haven't fixed it, but governance is a good thing.
So while clearly there are some problems, is it better to have this problem than the
problem of one person gets hit with a bus and there goes your distro?
Yeah.
Well, the Debian bunch is super easy to convince and get everybody on the same page.
So I'm sure there'll be no problem.
What was the one quote about machine learning in the Debian story?
Oh, you're right.
I don't know if you...
Did you see this one, Wes?
They put one of the Debian maintainers suggested that the leadership position could be fulfilled
by a machine using some sort of machine learning program.
Oh, that's great.
As long as it's open source, I'm all for it.
That's so funny.
That would be actually kind of awesome, wouldn't it?
If they open source like a distribution management engine that uses machine learning and just
watches the mailing list and...
But it's like taking everything from like pin and paper is where we are, guys, to robots.
Yeah, here it is.
Some developers seem to relish this possibility.
Even one suggesting machine learning system could be placed into the role instead of a
human for the leadership position.
What does that say about the previous leader, if anything?
That does feel like commentary on...
Well, and also just the structure, right?
Because there's not...
The leader doesn't do that much.
It's mostly a figurehead.
There you go.
Although I don't know how it would work at the conferences.
You know, we sit here and we say, oh, modernize governance, improve this, do that.
But the reality is that is way easier said than done.
And time they spend on fixing that stuff is time they don't spend on shipping Debian.
And that's going to be a constant struggle.
But it's important, though, without the governance, you won't have a Debian going forward.
I completely agree.
But if you're using technology from the 90s...
That's the trick, right?
It's a balance.
And so there's no like, we're not going to solve this right now.
It's going to be a lot more work.
Yeah, I suppose so.
All right.
Well, how about I pick us up with something?
I found a couple of clips to celebrate the the World Wide Web and the Internet.
And I went and you know me, I love pulling clips and cheese bacon here said, you got
to go get some for the Computer Chronicles.
So this is just a real quick little let's just pick us back up.
Let's just change the mood a little bit with this one.
Marshall McLuhan said that one day we would all live in a global village, an electronic
community interconnected by communications networks that would shrink the earth.
Well, the global village has arrived and its main street is called the Internet, where
people from around the world do meet electronically to exchange ideas.
Today we'll surf the net, we'll explore the Internet on this edition of the Computer
Chronicles.
The Internet, yes, and then we built these communities and then we created operating
systems and well, I think we all remember what happened after that.
I think we all know.
There you have it.
I hope the Debian project, I hope things sort out.
I think they've been doing a lot of things the same way for a very long time.
So it's a difficult thing.
But you know what?
Enterprising people over there.
How about a little housekeeping, gentlemen?
How about a little housekeeping?
Now, there's a couple of things to cover.
First of all, I was going to introduce you, but I already did.
So hi cheese.
Hey, welcome aboard.
Thank you.
We published the Linux OS Fundamental Study Group that we did last week that is now up
on YouTube.
We have a link in the show notes.
So if you were not able to attend live, you can go watch the recorded version.
Thank you to Kenny and Elle for putting that on.
You will find that in the show notes or on our YouTube channel.
And speaking of YouTube videos, oh, boy.
So they have today's the birthday for Linux Academy, so seventh anniversary.
And to celebrate, they did a trivia game where they took a few contestants, including myself,
and asked them trivia related to Linux Academy.
And then if you got the trivia wrong, you had to eat a bowl of chili.
And there was five bowls.
And they progressively got hotter and hotter until they were eventually on fire.
And being the new guy, I didn't do so well.
I didn't know all this stuff.
You know?
I'm new.
So I really bombed.
And I had to eat a lot of hot chili.
And they've posted that video today.
And it's a lot of me being tortured.
There's a lot of me getting tortured in that video.
It's bad.
You learned a lot about the Scoville unit that day.
I did.
So that'll be in the show notes as well.
It's up on the Linux Academy comm YouTube channel, Linux Academy comm.
And it's great.
It is a really good video.
Jacob, the editor for that, managed to cut down an hour and a half into eight minutes.
Did he?
He did a killer job.
Yeah.
He really did a killer job at it.
Impressive.
Yeah.
And man, did I burn my face off.
Holy crap.
And you know, and people will see, it's not like here's a whole bowl of chili that you
have to.
No, this is like condensed.
It's hot.
And like the peppers came out of like special jars and a special liquid.
And he added more peppers.
With gloves.
Yeah.
Removing peppers with gloves.
Removing it.
And then he added more.
So there was like fresh peppers in there too.
It was really.
You'll see in the video.
There's a couple there I think where Richard complains about chewing.
Yes.
Yeah.
He made the fatal mistake of chewing the peppers up.
I made the mistake of licking my lips.
Oh yeah.
That's not good.
Absolutely.
Now we've been taking in your feedback about these study groups and I think we're going
to rework them into something bigger and better.
I don't know because we don't have it finalized yet.
So we're going to cancel the study group for next week and we will relaunch study groups
again.
We have the Ansible one I think on the 7th.
I think we're going to leave that one on for now while we're reworking this.
Is that right Elle?
Is it the 7th we're doing Ansible?
First Tuesday of the month.
Oh yeah.
There you go.
That's easy to remember.
First Tuesday of the month.
That's much easier.
And we'll hopefully have our secret plans completed by then.
We'll see.
I think I think people will like it.
The feedback's been super good on the study groups and I think we could do it even make
it an even more consumable way because the reality is, and this is going to be a big
shocker everybody, there's more people that can download it than can attend live.
What?
I know, right?
I know.
It's crazy.
It's not like we would have ever had metrics or anything else from anything we do that
would suggest that.
No, no, no, no.
So we're going to, but there'll be still a live component and all of that.
But yeah, we're going to rework it with some of that in mind, make it a little more easier
for people to consume because the one that we just published was, it was a hit.
Well, I think it's fantastic, you know, and I'm sure Elle will go into it more and yes,
I'm here.
I can finally like take part in these things.
I'm so excited.
But you know, just what Elle's done just since she's recently joined the network too
and the study groups and rallying people around to help teach and to help create a more positive
community.
And I think that's just, that's fantastic.
She killed it at scale too.
Well, that's, that's what I hear.
That's what I hear.
Hey, which bell was that?
Here we go.
There you go.
It's a real bell.
Yeah, there were some things in the way on that first attempt.
We got to find swag bells.
That'd be so great.
I'm looking man, you know, but so far it's been like bicycle bells, right?
Yeah.
I think we need the singular ding, not the cha-ching, cha-ching.
We don't want cha-ching, cha-ching.
No, you just want ding.
Yeah.
We're talking about Linux fest Northwest and the scale was great.
We'll, in fact, we'll talk about scale here in just a moment, but before we, before we
get out of housekeeping completely, go check up the meetup page, meetup.com slash Jupiter
broadcasting and just always over there keeping the details up to date for the Linux fest
Northwest meetup.
And so you can track it there.
We got a lot going on.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
Meetup.com slash Jupiter broadcasting, future study groups also on there.
And when we do meetups at things like scale, those are also on there.
So there you go.
All right, there's housekeeping.
Let's talk about scale and it was a great scale, scale 17 X in Pasadena, California.
Heck of event.
I don't, I didn't ever got a final number on the attendees, but I'm sure it was way
over 5,000, but I don't know for sure.
I, I know they had 33,000 registered attendees, 33,000.
Yeah.
Isn't that crazy?
You guys, you guys can't see in the studio, but I'm like giving Chris the like holy cow
eyes.
Yeah.
And this wasn't my first rodeo, so I'll, I'll go last.
I'd love to hear, I don't know, Wes, quick, I know you cut off a little bit on Coder,
but I'd love to hear a couple of highlights from you and takeaways from scale.
You know, I was really impressed with one, just how welcoming and friendly it was my
first scale.
It was great.
It's kind of in that perfect middle ground between a conference that's big enough that
you can really see the people you want, like Chris, you and I got to see Brendan Craig
talk and that was awesome.
But you know, people afterwards could just go right up and talk to him.
He wasn't totally swamped, really friendly, plenty of time to talk to whoever you want.
And it doesn't feel like a sales push at all.
It's just a bunch of people who love Linux and open source.
Brandon Greg's talk might've been one of my highlights.
Right?
Yeah.
Let me just steal that from you, especially the part where he was live debugging Minecraft,
but had never played Minecraft before.
Yes.
He didn't even know how to mine.
That was amazing.
It was great.
In eBPF, in real time, he's like capturing performance information about Minecraft and
figuring out like where it hangs on the CPU and he builds a fire graph of the different
performance metrics and it breaks down like in red, like the biggest performance issues
and he's like, Oh, need a little more information.
Let's go do this.
Oh, let's go load this library I've built.
And he just does it all right there while he's giving a presentation and it never gets
boring.
Doesn't miss a beat.
Isn't flustered at all.
Really impressive.
And that's like, that's the kind of caliber that you can get at scale, but you don't have
to go to something like OSCON or reInvent and really just hate yourself while you're
there.
I was also impressed that like I just kept seeing organic meetings, like people who had
no idea, had never talked to each other and were helping each other solve problems.
Like I met a great guy, David, who was working in HPC and scientific computing and we were
checking out the open power booth, which was fascinating in its own right.
He had had some trouble with open power trying to get some complicated old fashioned Fortran
programs to compile.
I'm sure many people can sympathize.
Yeah, sure.
And the guy at the booth just offered like, oh, you know, I know another researcher who's
struggled with that.
Let me get you in touch.
He's solved all those problems already.
So I don't know.
I was just really impressed by how friendly and easy everything was and just the great
caliber of people.
And the range.
So here he is using the open power architecture, which we don't talk about very much, solving
Fortran issues.
That's a wide range of scale right there.
So Al, this is also your first scale and I'd love to hear a couple of your highlights and
takeaways from the event.
You know, I think I had the same experience as Wes.
I tackled it a little bit differently being my first time I turned to my Twitter family
and just tweeted out, hey, first time at scale, how does this work?
Within an hour, I was already invited to lunch with a group of scale people who had been
there multiple times.
And throughout the conferences I'm walking by, I have people walking up to me going,
hey, Al, are you finding what you need?
Do you have any questions?
Can I get you a hold, you know, and get you in contact with anyone?
So that kind of community was amazing.
I had another speaker that spoke at the same time as I did and I just randomly tweeted
out, you know, I'm really sad that I'm missing your talk, Justin.
Is there any way I can get your slides?
And he tweets me back and says, I'll be waiting at this table at this time.
Come and ask me all the questions that you have.
So that's the biggest small or the smallest big conference I've ever been to, if that
makes sense.
It does.
And that guy was great.
He was from opensource.com and he had some great questions that, or we had some questions
that he had great answers for, I guess is the way to put it.
It was really, it was really special to get to talk to him.
It definitely was interesting because my takeaway, which I think I told you guys, which is funny,
is I learned that when I grow up, I need to be an avocado.
Now, what's the story behind that?
It was so funny to see that community of community managers coming together and sharing what
information that they've learned about what it means to develop an open source community.
And understanding that, you know what, avocados are expensive.
It's going to cost a lot of money to build a community, but in the end it's worth it.
That's pretty great.
That is pretty great.
So I think you both would recommend going.
I saw in the chat room, people were asking if that's maybe a way to get a job by going
to scale.
Saturday night was the bad voltage live night, which we went to, it was fun, but at the same
time there was a job networking session going on where people that were looking for a job
or had a job were getting together and giving each other tips on resumes and cleaning up
their online profiles and maybe giving better pitches.
So there's a whole range of stuff.
And so I would say yes.
Also a lot of companies are there to recruit.
Because if you are going to an event like that, you're probably in the demographic they
want to hire from.
Yep.
I believe talking with an individual I won't name, but Texas Linux Fest last year, three
individuals from Texas Linux Fest now work here at Linux Academy.
I'm one of them.
As am I, right?
The third person is a mystery.
We don't know who that is yet.
Well, I don't know who that is.
I'm sure someone does.
I do.
Yeah.
But I think that it's definitely a good avenue to go and just to be yourself and ask questions
and not be afraid to ask questions.
Yeah.
It is a good environment for that.
It's not the hokey, I'm on a terminal on the other side of the world and I'm going to give
you some snarky answers, generally.
It's generally someone who cares and is willing to help you out.
With that, though, I will say if you're attending, you have to be willing to go up and talk to
people.
You know, the job isn't just going to fall in your lap.
So it is a little bit of vulnerability of just walking up and starting conversations and
doing a hallway track.
That's a good point.
I think the nice thing is with the caliber of people, sure, that can be really nerve-wracking
and scary, but everyone there is basically like you.
They're all interested in the same stuff and really friendly.
Even the speakers.
Like, you know, we had, Wes and I had a moment of celebrity with Brandon Gregg because we've
been following the incredible work he does as a Netflix performance engineer.
And you get a real sense of the gift that Netflix has given to the community by allowing
him to open source his work because it's amazing.
Having him do that with Minecraft using open source tools that are available to all of
us and the functionality and features that eBPF is going to bring to Linux, incredible.
And to watch him go through it and you realize he is a geek about this.
He is super passionate.
He gets excited about finding performance issues.
And he is just somebody who's gotten over the fear of talking to people.
And now he's at a point where he's a great presenter.
Absolutely.
And to Elle's point, too, is that if you're at one of these conferences and you see somebody
that maybe might be an outlier, bring them over.
You never know who you're going to meet there.
And it's not always easy for someone to socially interact.
Not everybody can just jump right into that.
And if you see somebody, bring them into your circle and try and strike up conversation
with them, and who knows what impact you're going to make on their life just by reaching
out to them.
So I think you definitely need to consider those things as well.
I think Chris and Wes will speak to, if I'm at that conference, ping me.
I will definitely bring you along and introduce you to people.
It's one of the great parts of being part of this community.
Just follow the hair.
Yeah, that is so many times I found Elle in a crowd because of that hair.
Mr. Popey gave a talk, which we attended.
That was great.
Try to link that in the show notes.
The way they did it, it's a little complicated for getting the content after the fact.
But they had YouTube channels for each room that was streaming live.
It's like Ballroom A, Ballroom B, Ballroom C, D, E, F.
And so not all of the talks were live, but a lot of them were live, and in various production
states.
But you can go back to those YouTube channels and skim the days and find some of the talks
and stuff.
But Popey's is linked in there, and it looks like he got that in there.
We'll try to put that in the show notes.
I had a great scale.
I really focused on the hallway track, which is a silly thing.
I always thought the people that did this were being lazy and wasting an opportunity
because the talks are very valuable.
But over the years that I've gone, I've realized it's the people and it's the only time I get
to see some of these people.
And that has become more and more important as time has gone on.
And then the talks are kind of secondary to me now.
So I didn't go to as many this year.
Also, I felt like not as many of them applied to me.
It felt like if there was a theme, which they don't have themes, but if you were to grok
a theme by looking at all of the talks and aggregating it, it would be the cloud.
Scale was really about the cloud.
I mean, there was people giving talks about desktop stuff and applications and hardware.
So it's not all cloud.
It's not like it's 100% cloud.
But if you were to if you were to abstract an overall theme, it would be the cloud is
everywhere from the exhibition hall to the talks, cloud, cloud, cloud, in a way that
kind of gave me a little bit of pause like, oh, man, we are really watching an era.
This is a this is a changing of an era now.
Yeah, right.
I mean, the keynote was was the founder of HashiCorp.
So that kind of sets the tone.
Yeah.
Now, of course, there was a lot of open source in there.
So don't think it's just like cloud corporate side, but still right.
They managed to strike that balance better than any other event.
It's like one of the commercial ones, like the cons, LinuxCon, OSCON, they they weigh
heavily on the commercial side because it's for enterprises, people in it.
The tickets are like a thousand dollars for some of these events worth scale.
The community is the one submitting the talks.
So they're the ones setting the theme and the tone.
It's what the community contributes is what the show or the expo becomes.
So it is just a reflection of where the market's at now that that was fascinating.
I got to go hands on with a couple of pieces of hardware that I wanted to try.
That's what I was going to ask you about.
Like, you know, the conferences, the few that I've been to, I've gone to the talks, but
I'm always the nerd for the floor, right?
Like what's their hardware wise?
Oh, the expo hall?
Yes.
And so I'm really curious how does scale stack up in their expo hall compared to, say, some
of the other conferences?
I like it.
They generally have along the outlies of the expo hall, like the open source projects,
your inkscapes, your open seuses, your foundations, your next clouds, whatever.
Yeah.
And then in the middle, you've got high end commercial booths.
I'm talking like high production, like booths with beer caps, plush carpet, a mirror, did
you see that mirror picture I tweeted of a of a tux penguin made out of optron cores?
Yeah.
Made out of optron processors.
And then like the Microsoft booth was one of the booths I stopped by, super swanky lighting,
great comfy carpet, and they had the Azure Sphere OS dev kit devices there.
So I got to go hands on with the little Azure Sphere OS, which is Linux based, and some
example hardware where it was like, this one I think was like a washing machine interface
that was actually controlled by an Azure Sphere OS.
Wow.
And I mean, not only were we getting a spiel about it, right, but we were interacting with
one of the developers who's been working on stripping Linux down enough to make it run
on those kinds of platforms.
Mm hmm.
And and got to talk to the Visual Studio program manager and got a little bit of back and forth
regarding the new Windows open sourced calculator, gave him a hard time about that.
So it was actually one of my favorite booths because they had a Linux running device they
were showing off they were they were talking about some of the new things they're doing
and they just open sourced the calc.exe app.
So it was it was kind of fun.
The other booth I really enjoyed, I mean, there were so many.
But the other one that I really enjoyed was Purism.
Yeah.
Got to talk to Todd Weaver a couple of times did bumped him and bumped into him in the
hotel as well.
And I talked to their chief security guy, his name is Kyle, and he went over how they're
using the Purism secure boot system, how it uses your GPG keys to sign things.
So things are signed with your GPG stuff, how the hardware token works into that.
And we talked a little bit about their convergence efforts.
Then I got to hold the development kit for the Liebman five in my hands, which was like
a brick.
Yeah, it was a brick.
Yeah, well, it was a big, big brick that didn't power on.
Did you did you have and this is, you know, kind of one of the things that I was curious
about a scale to did they have like pine 64 there with their quote unquote, I didn't
see pine 64.
No device.
But there were some other hardware devices there, but I didn't see pine 64 more mobile
hardware devices.
I'll tell you the one that impressed me the most is the one Wes was talking about a little
bit earlier, the the open power architecture booth.
We talk a lot about future desktops that are based on ARM processors or what risk five
might develop into one day.
But these guys have power PC based desktops that are modern processors with, as he puts
it just monster IO.
And it was just like a real Linux desktop running right there on a rapture workstation,
which was I'd never seen one in person.
It was really cool.
With like a real video card, like an AMD video card in there and like PCI slots and memory
slots like a like a like a desktop tower running open running the open power power PC architecture.
That's awesome.
Yeah, it was actually really cool.
It's something people don't talk a lot about.
Part of it's the price.
I'm sure a little expensive, like that rig he had there was like over $3,000.
So yeah, I mean, but if you look at that and say look at a specked out, you know, or something
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
You know, I forgot to ask about the fan noise because boy, wouldn't that make a nice studio
machine?
Yeah, no, I guess the unlike risk five, like the whole architecture isn't open source for
open power.
IBM, though he seemed to think maybe one day IBM might.
So there was I mean, there were so many cool booths got to bump into Jordan from Linux
game cast.
That was really cool.
I got to meet him in person and they were at the Lutris booth.
Lutris had a booth there.
So that was really cool and saw Jill from their from their weekly show that they do
and got to chat with them tons and tons of audience members and we had a great meetup
over 30 people showed up for our dinner, which a PF Chang's left me with the bill.
We go up we go there.
This is actually I don't think you don't think Emma would mind me telling the story because
it was so no so bad.
She's awesome.
Yeah.
So we get there.
And we asked the waiter like can you split the check?
Oh, yeah.
We asked the waiter like can you split the check?
Okay.
Well, how we can split it two ways.
Well, I'm looking there's like there's like 32 of us there.
Right.
I'm like, that's not gonna work.
And Emma's like, oh, no, I'm not having this.
She's like computers can do this.
I'm gonna go talk to the manager.
So she gets up and she's gone for like, five, six minutes, seven minutes long enough that
you know, she's having a conversation with somebody.
She gets back and she kind of has like this little frustrated look on her.
I'm like, what?
Because it's like, didn't go well, like, what's the matter?
They'll only split it four ways now, like, okay, so I'm sitting there doing the math.
I'm like, well, which four suckers get stuck with the bill?
Like, how are we going to spread around cash?
Like, how are we going to do this, right?
But as the night goes on, when you got a big group of people, we're getting taught, we're
getting you know, we're drinking, we're talking loud, we're taking up a lot of space.
They have a shift change.
And the new waiter, he's not having any of it.
He's because he has inherited a mess.
The old waiter was great.
Like, he was playing a long troll on us on one side of the table, he'd have an accent.
That took us way too long to figure out.
It was like, what is going on here?
Yeah.
And the other side of the table, no accent.
I had that happen here at a Dunkin.
Really?
Yeah.
A Dunkin Donuts?
Yes.
Well, it was pretty funny.
Like, it had us, you know, we were like, sorry, everybody's like listening every time he
came up.
But he got shift changed.
New guy came up.
He wasn't having the bill split at all.
I wonder if the new guy came up because he knew that he wasn't going to get the gratuity
level.
Right?
Yeah.
So he's like, no, guys.
That guy had invested.
He had invested in it.
Or the original waiter was just smart enough to get out of there before he had to deal
with any of our unhappiness about the bill.
I had a lot of good fun, though.
It was a good night.
And it was good to see everybody again.
I do think four days is a lot for scale.
You know, I think they could do it in two or three, cut a few talks, do it in two or
three days.
Maybe two days would be perfect.
Boy, by the end, yeah.
It really feels like a slug.
Even though you're having fun the whole time, it's just so much.
Yeah.
Now our attention turns to Linux Fest Northwest.
Linux Fest Northwest coming up.
So excited.
Texas Linux Fest coming up.
Yeah.
All of the Linux Fest coming up.
Yeah, you're going to be there for Linux Fest Northwest.
Yeah.
About damn time.
Oh, that's awesome.
I know.
I'm super excited.
It'll be my first time in Washington state as well.
Wow.
And, well, one of the things that I did want to note that I noticed, because I was so jealous,
and then following you guys on Twitter, seeing all the things that were going on, I guess
one day you guys decided to take Elle to the Pacific Ocean.
She had never seen the Pacific Ocean.
I thought that was great.
But I'm looking forward to getting up there in Washington and checking it out too.
So the amazing part of that is, I don't think that was a decision made.
It's we're all headed back to the hotel to go to bed.
And I'm like, oh, I've never seen the ocean.
And the next thing I know, we're in a car headed to the ocean.
I like it.
You've got to do that, right?
Absolutely.
I think when she comes up to Washington, and you too, we should go visit some mountains.
Real mountains.
Real mountains, yeah.
I called the hills mountains in California, and I'm never going to live that down.
I wasn't having it.
I mean, California has a few mountains.
Don't get me wrong.
But not where we were.
Not in LA.
Not where we were at in Pasadena.
Yeah.
Good times.
And if we didn't get a chance to see it scaled this year, maybe we'll get to see it at Linux
Fest Northwest.
I know.
I don't want people to feel like they're left out.
But it is a lot of fun.
And if you ever have the opportunity, I encourage you to take it.
What do you say we do a few emails before we get out of here?
All right.
One comes in from Ken about trying out software.
And I wanted to read this one on the show because we've gotten variations of this email
over the years.
And I can't quite remember if we've ever taken a crack at actually answering it.
So he says, hey, Chris and team, I've been a regular listener now for over a year to
a number of the programs.
I'm intrigued by many of the software picks.
But even though I'm tempted to try it, I'm always concerned about how easy it might be
to delete or clean off my system after I'm done with it.
I don't want a lot of leftover junk.
Can you give me some insight about how you usually handle this?
I'd rather not have to nuke and pave the OS over and over to ensure a stable system.
Do snaps insulate you from the main OS?
Does this solve this problem?
I'm inclined mostly just to install things inside a VM or not using known boxes or virtual
box and play with it there.
On the other hand, I'm guessing I'm not really getting a true sense of the performance of
these apps.
So I thought maybe you could discuss this on the show.
We do install a lot of software for this show and we all know that feeling of, oh, my system's
so gross now.
Well, and what was it last week?
Dot file nightmares?
Yeah.
I know.
Right.
Sort of.
I mean, this kind of really plays into that.
Damn it.
You're right.
So I'm not going to lie.
I don't tend to uninstall often unless it is a real flop, then I uninstall it.
But because this space is cheap and it's generally using shared libraries that are already on
my system, once I've got the bulk of things installed, the cost of leaving it on there
is generally negligible.
Other than it's an entry in my software package database, which then has to then get updates
and things like that, which is kind of annoying.
Usually when I'm doing updates and I notice a program go by that I never, ever, ever use,
I usually contemplate removing it.
But I will admit I kind of err on the side of just not bothering with it.
What about you, Wes?
These days, mostly I'm using Docker.
It's pretty easy to pass, like your Xsocket or you can do it with Wayland, too.
So there's really no reason not to use Docker.
If you're already familiar with that tool and you want to try something out, especially
if it's on a different distro, that's really handy.
Sometimes you'll get like little weirdnesses with, you know, toolkits and stuff.
So if you're going for like a really visual app, OK, maybe not.
But that's one step.
And Ken, to answer your question, definitely go behind our show notes.
Watch Popeye's talks, because yes, snaps can help.
Of course, you have to depend on that package being snapped.
But once it is, and if it's not a legacy app, yeah, you don't have to worry about your system
when you install it.
Yeah, that is.
That's a great plug for the old talk there.
Nice call there, Wes.
Nice call.
I was curious about you, Brent.
Do you try to avoid installing software?
Do you install it and then leave it?
What's your approach?
I certainly don't try to avoid installing software because that's the best way to discover
new things.
But I'm like you, if I see a piece of software scrolling by weekly and when I'm doing my
updates that I never use, I tend to lean to try to take it off.
And if you're running like an Ubuntu based distribution, they make it pretty easy to
at least like purge packages and stuff like that.
And I haven't had too many problems with the package manager uninstalling something useful
in that process.
It's been actually fairly smooth to kind of install stuff, uninstall stuff and just try
to keep things down to only the programs I'm using.
But I would say I've never run into a real problem with anything getting totally messed
up because of trying software.
One thing too that makes me think of is it's often handy to have a good idea of what your
base is, whether that's in something like Ansible or just a bash script or just a list
of packages that you want on every system.
Because then whenever you are back to nuking and paving or you just want to try another
distro, it's not as much work to get all set up.
And backups, everyone.
Good backups.
Yeah, backups do help.
And your package manager should warn you if it's about to do something that's going to
like uninstall the GNOME desktop or something like that.
Yeah, it really pays to pay attention to what it's trying to tell you.
I've been caught a few times when it's trying to install like 400 packages just for a simple
application or something.
And so yeah, read, read things.
That's really important.
Yeah, read it.
And I might say last, my last bit of advice would be give it a go because this is how
you learn.
You know, if you do break it, just like Brent says, make sure you got good backups and you
probably won't ever make that mistake again.
Maybe not that particular one, but you will most definitely make more mistakes and break
the things in the future.
Hopefully, if you're having fun.
It is okay to fail sometimes.
I think that's a future topic that L suggested at scale that I like it is like we should
tell a few stories where we tried to do something and it blew up horribly in our face.
Like try to learn something new and it just didn't work out.
In fact, I'd love to get that as a feedback item too.
I'd read a couple of those.
If you want to share some with the class, go to linuxunplug.com slash contact and send
in your training fail.
And I think especially the early day fails.
What were some of your fails in the early days and maybe even, you know, in the 90s,
right?
In the early 2000s when there wasn't really all that documentation, right, and you failed
miserably.
Where did you go?
Yeah.
You know, how did you fail?
It happens.
Super interesting to hear those stories.
I remember having to go into school and look up stuff on the internet and take it home
with me for the next day.
So he printed it out.
Yeah, I love it.
Man, you know what I used to do back in the late 90s, early 2000s before we really had
great search engines.
We had search engines, but nothing to write home about.
And we had a monthly book trip that we would go on.
And we would each get to go and there was an IT budget for books and we would go pick
out a book.
Wow.
And so that's where you acquired all your nutshell books?
Oh, yeah.
So many.
We had so many shelves of books back then.
It was really crazy.
Of course, when I left, there were all the company's books and I don't know what they're
doing with all the probably fire starter now.
All right.
Another email of the show comes in from Paul following up on our home automation topic.
Paul writes, as always, like the show, the bit about home automation, I thought I would
mention, there's something else you could look at.
It's called Node-RED.
It's a great way to self-document all your automation using a GUI flow chart.
It's very powerful.
I've only recently started to use it on my Ubuntu box at home.
I connected it easily to my Echo and I also connected it to my Broadlink IR Blaster.
This is neat.
So this is something else to put on our list, Wes.
Yeah.
I haven't played with it before, but looking at it, gosh, the GUI looks wonderful.
It's just very intuitive.
You can tie things together and it turns out just Googling around for some examples, a
lot of people are using it.
It's really popular as part of the home assistant community.
So like there's a couple of YouTubers, Dr. Z's is a good one that has some stuff on it.
So take a look at that.
Oh, when I get back, we're going to get that home automation system finished up in the
studio.
We'll have to call it studio automation.
Yeah, it will be.
Of course.
I'm really looking forward to it.
Well, I'll just mention, I meant to mention earlier, if you want to see a picture from
our meetup and stuff, I have a link in the show notes to the picture that System76 tweeted
out of the meetup and a good group there.
It's just so much fun.
So much fun.
But it's good to be back.
Good to be back in the studio and back to regular shows for a bit, at least for a little
bit.
We'll see.
I'm going to be hitting the road soon actually and traveling back to Washington.
Yeah.
What are you talking about?
Normalcy.
You don't have that.
I know.
Actually, yeah.
It's going to be a road for the show.
It'll probably be a road show.
So yeah, nothing normal.
Nothing normal about that.
It's going to be crazy, but you should join us live and find out if we managed to pull
it off over at jblive.tv.
We do it on Tuesdays.
Go to jupitabroadcasting.com slash calendar to get it converted to your local time.
It's 4 p.m. Central, 2 p.m. Pacific.
Those are the two that I follow the most closely.
Mr. West, where can people go get more Westpain?
At Westpain or check out techsnap.systems.
Oh, what about you, Mr. Bacon?
You got anything you want to play?
They can just go to atcheesebacon on Twitter.
Boom.
Check that out.
What about you, Elle?
You want to plug your Twitter handle?
I'm at L underscore O underscore punk.
That's L O punk.
Owning those underscores there.
Owning those underscores.
And me?
Well, thanks for asking.
I'm at Chris Elias.
The network at Jupiter Signal.
Our website linuxunplugged.com, linuxunplugged.com slash contact for your feedback.
Let me know your training fail.
Maybe we'll cover that on a future episode of the Unplugged program.
And maybe consider joining us in our virtual Lug.
You can Google, probably the easiest way to do it, Jupiter Colony Mumble.
You'll get all the information, the setup guide, how to get in there.
We just ask that you have a headset, some microphone that works, and a way to hear us.
Pretty simple to participate.
And then you can get your opinions in the show.
Thanks so much for joining us on this week's episode of the Unplugged program.
And we'll see you right back here, next Tuesday!
All right, now we just got to name this thing and we're done for the day.
Hey Brent, what's the name?
Yeah, come on Brent, yeah.
Amazing.
I got a few entries in there.
Oh, did you?
Good.
Brent's back.
Everybody's back.
We miss you so much when you're gone.
Today we'll surf the net.
That's not bad.
It's not bad.
Debby and his children's also pretty good.
Oh, let's see.
We talked about scale too, so we could have scale in there.
I can't wait to step out of this hot box.
I cannot wait.
It's going to be glorious.
We should go outside for like a solid five minutes.
We should make a couple of laps around the building here.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, there is a possibility of tornadoes happening I think tomorrow morning.
Oh my gosh.
I think tomorrow Chris and I are going to, because we're staying in the same hotel right
now.
We're just going to scrap all of this and go like tornado hunting.
Be safe now.
That would be awesome.
Yeah.
That would be so great.
New podcast.
Yeah.
Jupiter Broadcasting's Tornado Hunter.
It's very windy for the podcast, but if you can listen through that-
Yeah, audio not so good.
Yeah, audio not so great.